The Basics
Install Chai in node, the browser, and other environments. Learn about styles that you can use to define assertions.


Asser
The assert style is exposed through assert interface. This provides the classic assert-dot notation, similar to that packaged with node.js. This assert module, however, provides several additional tests and is browser compatible.

var assert = require('chai').assert
  , foo = 'bar'
  , beverages = { tea: [ 'chai', 'matcha', 'oolong' ] };

assert.typeOf(foo, 'string'); // without optional message
assert.typeOf(foo, 'string', 'foo is a string'); // with optional message
assert.equal(foo, 'bar', 'foo equal `bar`');
assert.lengthOf(foo, 3, 'foo`s value has a length of 3');
assert.lengthOf(beverages.tea, 3, 'beverages has 3 types of tea');

In all cases, the assert style allows you to include an optional message as the last parameter in the assert statement. These will be included in the error messages should your assertion not pass.


BDD


The BDD style comes in two flavors: expect and should. Both use the same chainable language to construct assertions, but they differ in the way an assertion is initially constructed. 

Should
The should style allows for the same chainable assertions as the expect interface, however it extends each object with a should property to start your chain. This style has some issues when used with Internet Explorer, so be aware of browser compatibility.

Differences
First of all, notice that the expect require is just a reference to the expect function, whereas with the should require, the function is being executed.

The expect interface provides a function as a starting point for chaining your language assertions. It works on node.js and in all browsers.

The should interface extends Object.prototype to provide a single getter as the starting point for your language assertions. It works on node.js and in all modern browsers except Internet Explorer  



Testing Asynchronous Function (callback)
While testing callback function, the only major difference is, we need to tell Mocha that the test is complete because of async nature of function under test. In the below example, Mocha waits for the done() function to be get called to complete the test.


Hooks like beforeEach and afterEach
Few steps or code we might want to execute before or after each test to either setup preconditions before test or cleanup after test. so those code can be put inside beforeEach() and afterEach() methods.
It is always good practice to have named function or description to hooks, which helps to identify errors quickly in tests.

// Difference in assertion


The three interfaces present different styles of performing assertions. Ultimately, they perform the same task. Some users prefer one style over the other. This being said, there are also a couple technical considerations worth highlighting:

The assert and expect interfaces do not modify Object.prototype, whereas should does. So they are a better choice in an environment where you cannot or do not want to change Object.prototype.

The assert and expect interfaces support custom messages just about everywhere. For instance:

assert.isTrue(foo, "foo should be true");
expect(foo, "foo should be true").to.be.true;
The message "foo should be true" will be output together with the failed assertion if the assertion fails. You don't get the opportunity to set a custom message with the should interface.

The differences are documented there.

The three interfaces present different styles of performing assertions. Ultimately, they perform the same task. Some users prefer one style over the other. This being said, there are also a couple technical considerations worth highlighting:

The assert and expect interfaces do not modify Object.prototype, whereas should does. So they are a better choice in an environment where you cannot or do not want to change Object.prototype.

The assert and expect interfaces support custom messages just about everywhere. For instance:

assert.isTrue(foo, "foo should be true");
expect(foo, "foo should be true").to.be.true;
The message "foo should be true" will be output together with the failed assertion if the assertion fails. You don't get the opportunity to set a custom message with the should interface.

(Historical note: for a long time this answer stated that to get a custom message with expect, you'd have to use a workaround. Aurélien Ribon informed me that passing a message to expect as a second parameter works. Consequently, there is no need for a workaround. I've not been able to find which version of Mocha started providing support for this message, nor have I been able to find which version of the documentation documented it for the first time.)

Note that assert.isTrue(foo), expect(foo).to.be.true and foo.should.be.true all output the following if you do not use a custom message, and foo === 1:

    AssertionError: expected 1 to be true
So while the expect and should interface are nicer to read, it is not like one interface is more naturally informative than the other when an assertion fails. This message, which is identical for all three interfaces, does not tell you what exactly you were testing, only that the value you got was 1 but you wanted true. If you want to know what you were testing, you need to add a message.

The expect interface provides a function as a starting point for chaining your language assertions. It works on node.js and in all browsers.

The should interface extends Object.prototype to provide a single getter as the starting point for your language assertions. It works on node.js and in all modern browsers except Internet Explorer.





Shallow / Render / Mount

While shallow() only renders the component without the content of child components, mount() renders all child components as well. It renders the whole component hierarchy. While the former is used for component tests in isolation (unit tests, lightweight integration), the latter is used for real integration tests. Integration tests are more likely to break, because they include all the children and logic of your component tree. Thus the maintenance costs are higher for integration tests. People are saying it's more expensive to write and maintain those tests than unit tests. Last but not least, the third function to render your React components with Enzyme is called render(). It is similar to mount(), because it renders all child components. But from a performance point of view, it is less expensive than mount(), because it doesn't run the lifecycle methods of your component. So if you need access to child components but are not interested in lifecycle methods, you can use render() instead of mount().


https://stackabuse.com/using-mocks-for-testing-in-javascript-with-sinon-js/


URLs:

https://buddy.works/guides/how-automate-nodejs-unit-tests-with-mocha-chai
https://devhints.io/chai 
https://javascript.info/testing-mocha#behavior-driven-development-bdd
